<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 id="id02007" style="margin-top: 4em">Chapter 14</h2>
			<h4 id="id02008" style="margin-top: 2em">I</h4>
			<p id="id02009">At the receipt of custom behind the bar sat Miss Benjafield, stately as ever, relaxing her massive mind over a penny novelette.</p>
			<p id="id02010">‘Who was the man who just left, Miss Benjafield?’ I asked.</p>
			<p id="id02011">She marked the place with a shapely thumb and looked up.</p>
			<p id="id02012">‘The man? Oh, <i>him</i>! He’s⁠—why, weren’t you in here, Mr. Burns, one evening in January when⁠—’</p>
			<p id="id02013">‘That American?’</p>
			<p id="id02014">‘That’s him. What he’s doing here I don’t know. He disappeared quite a while back, and I haven’t seen him since. <i>Nor</i> want. Tonight up he turns again like a bad ha’penny. I’d like to know what he’s after. No good, if you ask <i>me</i>.’</p>
			<p id="id02015">Miss Benjafield’s prejudices did not easily dissolve. She prided herself, as she frequently observed, on knowing her own mind.</p>
			<p id="id02016">‘Is he staying here?’</p>
			<p id="id02017">‘Not at the “Feathers”. We’re particular who we have here.’</p>
			<p id="id02018">I thanked her for the implied compliment, ordered beer for the good of the house, and, lighting a pipe, sat down to meditate on this new development.</p>
			<p id="id02019">The vultures were gathered together with a vengeance. Sam within, Buck without, it was quite like old times, with the difference that now, I, too, was on the wrong side of the school door.</p>
			<p id="id02020">It was not hard to account for Buck’s reappearance. He would, of course, have made it his business to get early information of Mr. Ford’s movements. It would be easy for him to discover that the millionaire had been called away to the north and that the Nugget was still an inmate of Sanstead House. And here he was preparing for the grand attack.</p>
			<p id="id02021">I had been premature in removing Buck’s name from the list of active combatants. Broken legs mend. I ought to have remembered that.</p>
			<p id="id02022">His presence on the scene made, I perceived, a vast difference to my plan of campaign. It was at this point that my purchase of the Browning pistol lost its absurdity and appeared in the light of an acute strategic move. With Sam the only menace, I had been prepared to play a purely waiting game, watching proceedings from afar, ready to give my help if necessary. To check Buck, more strenuous methods were called for.</p>
			<p id="id02023">My mind was made up. With Buck, that stout disciple of the frontal attack, in the field, there was only one place for me. I must get into Sanstead House and stay there on guard.</p>
			<p id="id02024">Did he intend to make an offensive movement tonight? That was the question which occupied my mind. From the point of view of an opponent, there was this merit about Mr. MacGinnis, that he was not subtle. He could be counted on with fair certainty to do the direct thing. Sooner or later he would make another of his vigorous frontal attacks upon the stronghold. The only point to be decided was whether he would make it that night. Would professional zeal cause him to omit his beauty sleep?</p>
			<p id="id02025">I did not relish the idea of spending the night patrolling the grounds, but it was imperative that the house be protected. Then it occurred to me that the man for the vigil was Smooth Sam. If the arrival of Mr. MacGinnis had complicated matters in one way, it had simplified them in another, for there was no more need for the secrecy which had been, till now, the basis of my plan of action. Buck’s arrival made it possible for me to come out and fight in the open, instead of brooding over Sanstead House from afar like a Providence. Tomorrow I proposed to turn Sam out. Tonight I would use him. The thing had resolved itself into a triangular tournament, and Sam and Buck should play the first game.</p>
			<p id="id02026">Once more I called up the house on the telephone. There was a long delay before a reply came. It was Mr. Fisher’s voice that spoke. Audrey, apparently, had not returned to the house immediately after leaving me.</p>
			<p id="id02027">‘Hullo!’ said Sam.</p>
			<p id="id02028">‘Good evening, Mr. Fisher.’</p>
			<p id="id02029">‘Gee! Is that you, young fellow-me-lad? Are you speaking from<br/>
			London?’<br/></p>
			<p id="id02030">‘No. I am at the “Feathers”.’</p>
			<p id="id02031">He chuckled richly.</p>
			<p id="id02032">‘Can’t tear yourself away? Hat still in the ring? Say, what’s the use? Why not turn it up, sonny? You’re only wasting your time.’</p>
			<p id="id02033">‘Do you sleep lightly, Mr. Fisher?’</p>
			<p id="id02034">‘I don’t get you.’</p>
			<p id="id02035">‘You had better do so tonight. Buck MacGinnis is back again.’</p>
			<p id="id02036">There was silence at the other end of the wire. Then I heard him swear softly. The significance of the information had not been lost on Mr. Fisher.</p>
			<p id="id02037">‘Is that straight?’</p>
			<p id="id02038">‘It is.’</p>
			<p id="id02039">‘You’re not stringing me?’</p>
			<p id="id02040">‘Certainly not.’</p>
			<p id="id02041">‘You’re sure it was Buck?’</p>
			<p id="id02042">‘Is Buck’s the sort of face one forgets?’</p>
			<p id="id02043">He swore again.</p>
			<p id="id02044">‘You seem disturbed,’ I said.</p>
			<p id="id02045">‘Where did you see him?’ asked Sam.</p>
			<p id="id02046">‘Coming out of the “Feathers”, looking very fierce and determined.<br/>
			The Berserk blood of the MacGinnises is up. He’s going to do or<br/>
			die. I’m afraid this means an all-night sitting for you, Mr<br/>
			Fisher.’<br/></p>
			<p id="id02047">‘I thought you had put him out of business!’</p>
			<p id="id02048">There was a somewhat querulous note in his voice.</p>
			<p id="id02049">‘Only temporarily. I did my best, but he wasn’t even limping when<br/>
			I saw him.’<br/></p>
			<p id="id02050">He did not speak for a moment. I gathered that he was pondering over the new development.</p>
			<p id="id02051">‘Thanks for tipping me off, sonny. It’s a thing worth knowing. Why did you do it?’</p>
			<p id="id02052">‘Because I love you, Samuel. Good night.’</p>
			<p id="id02053">I rose late and breakfasted at my leisure. The peace of the English country inn enveloped me as I tilted back my chair and smoked the first pipe of the morning. It was a day to hearten a man for great deeds, one of those days of premature summer which comes sometimes to help us bear the chill winds of early spring. The sun streamed in through the open window. In the yard below fowls made their soothing music. The thought of violence seemed very alien to such a morning.</p>
			<p id="id02054">I strolled out into the Square. I was in no hurry to end this interlude of peace and embark on what, for all practical purposes, would be a siege.</p>
			<p id="id02055">After lunch, I decided, would be time enough to begin active campaigning.</p>
			<p id="id02056">The clock on the church tower was striking two as I set forth, carrying my suit-case, on my way to the school. The light-heartedness of the morning still lingered with me. I was amused at the thought of the surprise I was about to give Mr. Fisher. That wink still rankled.</p>
			<p id="id02057">As I made my way through the grounds I saw Audrey in the distance, walking with the Nugget. I avoided them and went on into the house.</p>
			<p id="id02058">About the house there was the same air of enchanted quiet which pervaded the grounds. Perhaps the stillness indoors was even more insistent. I had grown so accustomed to the never-ending noise and bustle of the boys’ quarters that, as I crossed the silent hall, I had an almost guilty sense of intrusion. I felt like a burglar.</p>
			<p id="id02059">Sam, the object of my visit, would, I imagined, if he were in the house at all, be in the housekeeper’s room, a cosy little apartment off the passage leading to the kitchen. I decided to draw that first, and was rewarded, on pushing open the half-closed door, by the sight of a pair of black-trousered legs stretched out before me from the depths of a wicker-work armchair. His portly middle section, rising beyond like a small hill, heaved rhythmically. His face was covered with a silk handkerchief, from beneath which came, in even succession, faint and comfortable snores. It was a peaceful picture⁠—the good man taking his rest; and for me it had an added attractiveness in that it suggested that Sam was doing by day what my information had prevented him from doing in the night. It had been some small consolation to me, as I lay trying to compose my anxious mind for sleep on the previous night, that Mr. Fisher also was keeping his vigil.</p>
			<p id="id02060">Pleasing as Sam was as a study in still life, pressure of business compelled me to stir him into activity. I prodded him gently in the centre of the rising territory beyond the black trousers. He grunted discontentedly and sat up. The handkerchief fell from his face, and he blinked at me, first with the dazed glassiness of the newly awakened, then with a ‘Soul’s Awakening’ expression, which spread over his face until it melted into a friendly smile.</p>
			<p id="id02061">‘Hello, young man!’</p>
			<p id="id02062">‘Good afternoon. You seem tired.’</p>
			<p id="id02063">He yawned cavernously.</p>
			<p id="id02064">‘Lord! What a night!’</p>
			<p id="id02065">‘Did Buck drop in?’</p>
			<p id="id02066">‘No, but I thought he had every time I heard a board creak. I didn’t dare close my eyes for a minute. Have you ever stayed awake all night, waiting for the goblins that get you if you don’t watch out? Well, take it from me it’s no picnic.’</p>
			<p id="id02067">His face split in another mammoth yawn. He threw his heart into it, as if life held no other tasks for him. Only in alligators have I ever seen its equal.</p>
			<p id="id02068">I waited till the seismic upheaval had spent itself. Then I came to business.</p>
			<p id="id02069">‘I’m sorry you had a disturbed night, Mr. Fisher. You must make up for it this afternoon. You will find the beds very comfortable.’</p>
			<p id="id02070">‘How’s that?’</p>
			<p id="id02071">‘At the “Feathers”. I should go there, if I were you. The charges are quite reasonable, and the food is good. You will like the “Feathers”.’</p>
			<p id="id02072">‘I don’t get you, sonny.’</p>
			<p id="id02073">‘I was trying to break it gently to you that you are about to move from this house. Now. At once. Take your last glimpse of the old home, Sam, and out into the hard world.’</p>
			<p id="id02074">He looked at me inquiringly.</p>
			<p id="id02075">‘You seem to be talking, young man; words appear to be fluttering from you; but your meaning, if any, escapes me.’</p>
			<p id="id02076">‘My meaning is that I am about to turn you out. I am coming back here, and there is not room for both of us. So, if you do not see your way to going quietly, I shall take you by the back of the neck and run you out. Do I make myself fairly clear now?’</p>
			<p id="id02077">He permitted himself a rich chuckle.</p>
			<p id="id02078">‘You have gall, young man. Well, I hate to seem unfriendly. I like you, sonny. You amuse me⁠—but there are moments when one wants to be alone. I have a whole heap of arrears of sleep to make up. Trot along, kiddo, and quit disturbing uncle. Tie a string to yourself and disappear. Bye-bye.’</p>
			<p id="id02079">The wicker-work creaked as he settled his stout body. He picked up the handkerchief.</p>
			<p id="id02080">‘Mr. Fisher,’ I said, ‘I have no wish to propel your grey hairs at a rapid run down the drive, so I will explain further. I am physically stronger than you. I mean to turn you out. How can you prevent it? Mr. Abney is away. You can’t appeal to him. The police are at the end of the telephone, but you can’t appeal to them. So what <i>can</i> you do, except go? Do you get me now?’</p>
			<p id="id02081">He regarded the situation in thoughtful silence. He allowed no emotion to find expression in his face, but I knew that the significance of my remarks had sunk in. I could almost follow his mind as he tested my position point by point and found it impregnable.</p>
			<p id="id02082">When he spoke it was to accept defeat jauntily.</p>
			<p id="id02083">‘You <i>are</i> my jinx, young man. I said it all along. You’re really set on my going? Say no more. I’ll go. After all, it’s quiet at the inn, and what more does a man want at my time of life?’</p>
			<p id="id02084">I went out into the garden to interview Audrey.</p>
			<p id="id02085">She was walking up and down on the tennis-lawn. The Nugget, lounging in a deck-chair, appeared to be asleep.</p>
			<p id="id02086">She caught sight of me as I came out from the belt of trees, and stopped. I had the trying experience of walking across open country under hostile observation.</p>
			<p id="id02087">The routing of Sam had left me alert and self-confident. I felt no embarrassment. I greeted her briskly.</p>
			<p id="id02088">‘Good afternoon. I have been talking to Sam Fisher. If you wait, you will see him passing away down the drive. He is leaving the house. I am coming back.’</p>
			<p id="id02089">‘Coming back?’</p>
			<p id="id02090">She spoke incredulously, or, rather, as if my words had conveyed no meaning. It was so that Sam had spoken. Her mind, like his, took time to adjust itself to the unexpected.</p>
			<p id="id02091">She seemed to awake to my meaning with a start.</p>
			<p id="id02092">‘Coming back?’ Her eyes widened. The flush deepened on her cheeks.<br/>
			‘But I told you⁠—’<br/></p>
			<p id="id02093">‘I know what you told me. You said you did not trust me. It doesn’t matter. I am coming back whether you trust me or not. This house is under martial law, and I am in command. The situation has changed since I spoke to you last night. Last night I was ready to let you have your way. I intended to keep an eye on things from the inn. But it’s different now. It is not a case of Sam Fisher any longer. You could have managed Sam. It’s Buck MacGinnis now, the man who came that night in the automobile. I saw him in the village after I left you. He’s dangerous.’</p>
			<p id="id02094">She looked away, past me, in the direction of the drive. I followed her gaze. A stout figure, carrying a suit-case, was moving slowly down it.</p>
			<p id="id02095">I smiled. Her eyes met mine, and I saw the anger that had been lying at the back of them flash out. Her chin went up with the old defiant tilt. I was sorry I had smiled. It was my old fault, the complacency that would not be hidden.</p>
			<p id="id02096">‘I don’t believe you!’ she cried. ‘I don’t trust you!’</p>
			<p id="id02097">It is curious how one’s motive for embarking on a course of conduct changes or disappears altogether as the action develops. Once started on an enterprise it is as if one proceeded with it automatically, irrespective of one’s original motives. I had begun what I might call the second phase of this matter of the Little Nugget, the abandoning of Cynthia’s cause in favour of Audrey’s, with a clear idea of why I was doing it. I had set myself to resist the various forces which were trying to take Ogden from Audrey, for one simple reason, because I loved Audrey and wished to help her. That motive, if it still existed at all, did so only in the form of abstract chivalry. My personal feelings towards her seemed to have undergone a complete change, dating from our parting in the road the night before. I found myself now meeting hostility with hostility. I looked at her critically and told myself that her spell was broken at last, that, if she disliked me, I was at least indifferent to her.</p>
			<p id="id02098">And yet, despite my altered feelings, my determination to help her never wavered. The guarding of Ogden might be⁠—primarily⁠—no business of mine, but I had adopted it as my business.</p>
			<p id="id02099">‘I don’t ask you to trust me,’ I said. ‘We have settled all that. There’s no need to go over old ground. Think what you please about this. I’ve made up my mind.’</p>
			<p id="id02100">‘If you mean to stay, I suppose I can’t prevent you.’</p>
			<p id="id02101">‘Exactly.’</p>
			<p id="id02102">Sam appeared again in a gap in the trees, walking slowly and pensively, as one retreating from his Moscow. Her eyes followed him till he was out of sight.</p>
			<p id="id02103">‘If you like,’ I said bitterly, ‘you may put what I am doing down to professional rivalry. If I am in love with Mrs. Ford and am here to steal Ogden for her, it is natural for me to do all I can to prevent Buck MacGinnis getting him. There is no need for you to look on me as an ally because we are working together.’</p>
			<p id="id02104">‘We are not working together.’</p>
			<p id="id02105">‘We shall be in a very short time. Buck will not let another night go by without doing something.’</p>
			<p id="id02106">‘I don’t believe that you saw him.’</p>
			<p id="id02107">‘Just as you please,’ I said, and walked away. What did it matter to me what she believed?</p>
			<p id="id02108">The day dragged on. Towards evening the weather broke suddenly, after the fashion of spring in England. Showers of rain drove me to the study.</p>
			<p id="id02109">It must have been nearly ten o’clock when the telephone rang.</p>
			<p id="id02110">It was Mr. Fisher.</p>
			<p id="id02111">‘Hello, is that you, sonny?’</p>
			<p id="id02112">‘It is. Do you want anything?’</p>
			<p id="id02113">‘I want a talk with you. Business. Can I come up?’</p>
			<p id="id02114">‘If you wish it.’</p>
			<p id="id02115">‘I’ll start right away.’</p>
			<p id="id02116">It was some fifteen minutes later that I heard in the distance the engines of an automobile. The headlights gleamed through the trees, and presently the car swept round the bend of the drive and drew up at the front door. A portly figure got down and rang the bell. I observed these things from a window on the first floor, overlooking the front steps; and it was from this window that I spoke.</p>
			<p id="id02117">‘Is that you, Mr. Fisher?’</p>
			<p id="id02118">He backed away from the door.</p>
			<p id="id02119">‘Where are you?’</p>
			<p id="id02120">‘Is that your car?’</p>
			<p id="id02121">‘It belongs to a friend of mine.’</p>
			<p id="id02122">‘I didn’t know you meant to bring a party.’</p>
			<p id="id02123">‘There’s only three of us. Me, the chauffeur, and my friend⁠—MacGinnis.’</p>
			<p id="id02124">The possibility, indeed the probability, of Sam seeking out Buck and forming an alliance had occurred to me, and I was prepared for it. I shifted my grip on the automatic pistol in my hand.</p>
			<p id="id02125">‘Mr. Fisher.’</p>
			<p id="id02126">‘Hello!’</p>
			<p id="id02127">‘Ask your friend MacGinnis to be good enough to step into the light of that lamp and drop his gun.’</p>
			<p id="id02128">There was a muttered conversation. I heard Buck’s voice rumbling like a train going under a bridge. The request did not appear to find favour with him. Then came an interlude of soothing speech from Mr. Fisher. I could not distinguish the words, but I gathered that he was pointing out to him that, on this occasion only, the visit being for the purposes of parley and not of attack, pistols might be looked on as non-essentials. Whatever his arguments, they were successful, for, finally, humped as to the back and muttering, Buck moved into the light.</p>
			<p id="id02129">‘Good evening, Mr. MacGinnis,’ I said. ‘I’m glad to see your leg is all right again. I won’t detain you a moment. Just feel in your pockets and shed a few of your guns, and then you can come in out of the rain. To prevent any misunderstanding, I may say I have a gun of my own. It is trained on you now.’</p>
			<p id="id02130">‘I ain’t got no gun.’</p>
			<p id="id02131">‘Come along. This is no time for airy persiflage. Out with them.’</p>
			<p id="id02132">A moment’s hesitation, and a small black pistol fell to the ground.</p>
			<p id="id02133">‘No more?’</p>
			<p id="id02134">‘Think I’m a regiment?’</p>
			<p id="id02135">‘I don’t know what you are. Well, I’ll take your word for it. You will come in one by one, with your hands up.’</p>
			<p id="id02136">I went down and opened the door, holding my pistol in readiness against the unexpected.</p>
			<h4 id="id02137" style="margin-top: 2em">II</h4>
			<p id="id02138">Sam came first. His raised hands gave him a vaguely pontifical air (Bishop Blessing Pilgrims), and the kindly smile he wore heightened the illusion. Mr. MacGinnis, who followed, suggested no such idea. He was muttering moodily to himself, and he eyed me askance.</p>
			<p id="id02139">I showed them into the classroom and switched on the light. The air was full of many odours. Disuse seems to bring out the inky-chalky, appley-deal-boardy bouquet of a classroom as the night brings out the scent of flowers. During the term I had never known this classroom smell so exactly like a classroom. I made use of my free hand to secure and light a cigarette.</p>
			<p id="id02140">Sam rose to a point of order.</p>
			<p id="id02141">‘Young man,’ he said. I should like to remind you that we are here, as it were, under a flag of truce. To pull a gun on us and keep us holding our hands up this way is raw work. I feel sure I speak for my friend Mr. MacGinnis.’</p>
			<p id="id02142">He cocked an eye at his friend Mr. MacGinnis, who seconded the motion by expectorating into the fireplace. I had observed at a previous interview his peculiar gift for laying bare his soul by this means of mode of expression. A man of silent habit, judged by the more conventional standard of words, he was almost an orator in expectoration.</p>
			<p id="id02143">‘Mr. MacGinnis agrees with me,’ said Sam cheerfully. ‘Do we take them down? Have we your permission to assume Position Two of these Swedish exercises? All we came for was a little friendly chat among gentlemen, and we can talk just as well⁠—speaking for myself, better⁠—in a less strained attitude. A little rest, Mr. Burns! A little folding of the hands? Thank you.’</p>
			<p id="id02144">He did not wait for permission, nor was it necessary. Sam and the melodramatic atmosphere was as oil and water. It was impossible to blend them. I laid the pistol on the table and sat down. Buck, after one wistful glance at the weapon, did the same. Sam was already seated, and was looking so cosy and at home that I almost felt it remiss of me not to have provided sherry and cake for this pleasant gathering.</p>
			<p id="id02145">‘Well,’ I said, ‘what can I do for you?’</p>
			<p id="id02146">‘Let me explain,’ said Sam. ‘As you have, no doubt, gathered, Mr<br/>
			MacGinnis and I have gone into partnership. The Little Nugget<br/>
			Combine!’<br/></p>
			<p id="id02147">‘I gathered that⁠—well?’</p>
			<p id="id02148">‘Judicious partnerships are the soul of business. Mr. MacGinnis and I have been rivals in the past, but we both saw that the moment had come for the genial smile, the hearty handshake, in fact, for an alliance. We form a strong team, sonny. My partner’s speciality is action. I supply the strategy. Say, can’t you see you’re up against it? Why be foolish?’</p>
			<p id="id02149">‘You think you’re certain to win?’</p>
			<p id="id02150">‘It’s a cinch.’</p>
			<p id="id02151">‘Then why trouble to come here and see me?’</p>
			<p id="id02152">I appeared to have put into words the smouldering thought which was vexing Mr. MacGinnis. He burst into speech.</p>
			<p id="id02153">‘Ahr chee! Sure! What’s de use? Didn’t I tell youse? What’s de use of wastin’ time? What are we spielin’ away here for? Let’s get busy.’</p>
			<p id="id02154">Sam waved a hand towards him with the air of a lecturer making a point.</p>
			<p id="id02155">‘You see! The man of action! He likes trouble. He asks for it. He eats it alive. Now I prefer peace. Why have a fuss when you can get what you want quietly? That’s my motto. That’s why we’ve come. It’s the old proposition. We’re here to buy you out. Yes, I know you have turned the offer down before, but things have changed. Your stock has fallen. In fact, instead of letting you in on sharing terms, we only feel justified now in offering a commission. For the moment you may seem to hold a strong position. You are in the house, and you’ve got the boy. But there’s nothing to it really. We could get him in five minutes if we cared to risk having a fuss. But it seems to me there’s no need of any fuss. We should win dead easy all right, if it came to trouble; but, on the other hand, you’ve a gun, and there’s a chance some of us might get hurt, so what’s the good when we can settle it quietly? How about it, sonny?’</p>
			<p id="id02156">Mr. MacGinnis began to rumble, preparatory to making further remarks on the situation, but Sam waved him down and turned his brown eyes inquiringly on me.</p>
			<p id="id02157">‘Fifteen per cent is our offer,’ he said.</p>
			<p id="id02158">‘And to think it was once fifty-fifty!’</p>
			<p id="id02159">‘Strict business!’</p>
			<p id="id02160">‘Business? It’s sweating!’</p>
			<p id="id02161">‘It’s our limit. And it wasn’t easy to make Buck here agree to that. He kicked like a mule.’</p>
			<p id="id02162">Buck shuffled his feet and eyed me disagreeably. I suppose it is hard to think kindly of a man who has broken your leg. It was plain that, with Mr. MacGinnis, bygones were by no means bygones.</p>
			<p id="id02163">I rose.</p>
			<p id="id02164">‘Well, I’m sorry you should have had the trouble of coming here for nothing. Let me see you out. Single file, please.’</p>
			<p id="id02165">Sam looked aggrieved.</p>
			<p id="id02166">‘You turn it down?’</p>
			<p id="id02167">‘I do.’</p>
			<p id="id02168">‘One moment. Let’s have this thing clear. Do you realize what you’re up against? Don’t think it’s only Buck and me you’ve got to tackle. All the boys are here, waiting round the corner, the same gang that came the other night. Be sensible, sonny. You don’t stand a dog’s chance. I shouldn’t like to see you get hurt. And you never know what may not happen. The boys are pretty sore at you because of what you did that night. I shouldn’t act like a bonehead, sonny⁠—honest.’</p>
			<p id="id02169">There was a kindly ring in his voice which rather touched me. Between him and me there had sprung up an odd sort of friendship. He meant business; but he would, I knew, be genuinely sorry if I came to harm. And I could see that he was quite sincere in his belief that I was in a tight corner and that my chances against the Combine were infinitesimal. I imagine that, with victory so apparently certain, he had had difficulty in persuading his allies to allow him to make his offer.</p>
			<p id="id02170">But he had overlooked one thing⁠—the telephone. That he should have made this mistake surprised me. If it had been Buck, I could have understood it. Buck’s was a mind which lent itself to such blunders. From Sam I had expected better things, especially as the telephone had been so much in evidence of late. He had used it himself only half an hour ago.</p>
			<p id="id02171">I clung to the thought of the telephone. It gave me the quiet satisfaction of the gambler who holds the unforeseen ace. The situation was in my hands. The police, I knew, had been profoundly stirred by Mr. MacGinnis’s previous raid. When I called them up, as I proposed to do directly the door had closed on the ambassadors, there would be no lack of response. It would not again be a case of Inspector Bones and Constable Johnson to the rescue. A great cloud of willing helpers would swoop to our help.</p>
			<p id="id02172">With these thoughts in my mind, I answered Sam pleasantly but firmly.</p>
			<p id="id02173">‘I’m sorry I’m unpopular, but all the same⁠—’</p>
			<p id="id02174">I indicated the door.</p>
			<p id="id02175">Emotion that could only be expressed in words and not through his usual medium welled up in Mr. MacGinnis. He sprang forward with a snarl, falling back as my faithful automatic caught his eye.</p>
			<p id="id02176">‘Say, you! Listen here! You’ll⁠—’</p>
			<p id="id02177">Sam, the peaceable, plucked at his elbow.</p>
			<p id="id02178">‘Nothing doing, Buck. Step lively.’</p>
			<p id="id02179">Buck wavered, then allowed himself to be drawn away. We passed out of the classroom in our order of entry.</p>
			<p id="id02180">An exclamation from the stairs made me look up. Audrey was leaning over the banisters. Her face was in the shadow, but I gathered from her voice that the sight of our little procession had startled her. I was not surprised. Buck was a distinctly startling spectacle, and his habit of growling to himself, as he walked, highly disturbing to strangers.</p>
			<p id="id02181">‘Good evening, Mrs. Sheridan,’ said Sam suavely.</p>
			<p id="id02182">Audrey did not speak. She seemed fascinated by Buck.</p>
			<p id="id02183">I opened the front door and they passed out. The automobile was still purring on the drive. Buck’s pistol had disappeared. I supposed the chauffeur had picked it up, a surmise which was proved correct a few moments later, when, just as the car was moving off, there was a sharp crack and a bullet struck the wall to the right of the door. It was a random shot, and I did not return it. Its effect on me was to send me into the hall with a leap that was almost a back-somersault. Somehow, though I was keyed up for violence and the shooting of pistols, I had not expected it at just that moment, and I was disagreeably surprised at the shock it had given me. I slammed the door and bolted it. I was intensely irritated to find that my fingers were trembling.</p>
			<p id="id02184">Audrey had left the stairs and was standing beside me.</p>
			<p id="id02185">‘They shot at me,’ I said.</p>
			<p id="id02186">By the light of the hall lamp I could see that she was very pale.</p>
			<p id="id02187">‘It missed by a mile.’ My nerves had not recovered and I spoke abruptly. ‘Don’t be frightened.’</p>
			<p id="id02188">‘I⁠—I was not frightened,’ she said, without conviction.</p>
			<p id="id02189">‘I was,’ I said, with conviction. ‘It was too sudden for me. It’s the sort of thing one wants to get used to gradually. I shall be ready for it another time.’</p>
			<p id="id02190">I made for the stairs.</p>
			<p id="id02191">‘Where are you going?’</p>
			<p id="id02192">‘I’m going to call up the police-station.’</p>
			<p id="id02193">‘Peter.’</p>
			<p id="id02194">‘Yes?’</p>
			<p id="id02195">‘Was⁠—was that man the one you spoke of?’</p>
			<p id="id02196">‘Yes, that was Buck MacGinnis. He and Sam have gone into partnership.’</p>
			<p id="id02197">She hesitated.</p>
			<p id="id02198">‘I’m sorry,’ she said.</p>
			<p id="id02199">I was half-way up the stairs by this time. I stopped and looked over the banisters.</p>
			<p id="id02200">‘Sorry?’</p>
			<p id="id02201">‘I didn’t believe you this afternoon.’</p>
			<p id="id02202">‘Oh, that’s all right,’ I said. I tried to make my voice indifferent, for I was on guard against insidious friendliness. I had bludgeoned my mind into an attitude of safe hostility towards her, and I saw the old chaos ahead if I allowed myself to abandon it.</p>
			<p id="id02203">I went to the telephone and unhooked the receiver.</p>
			<p id="id02204">There is apt to be a certain leisureliness about the methods of country telephone-operators, and the fact that a voice did not immediately ask me what number I wanted did not at first disturb me. Suspicion of the truth came to me, I think, after my third shout into the receiver had remained unanswered. I had suffered from delay before, but never such delay as this.</p>
			<p id="id02205">I must have remained there fully two minutes, shouting at intervals, before I realized the truth. Then I dropped the receiver and leaned limply against the wall. For the moment I was as stunned as if I had received a blow. I could not even think. It was only by degrees that I recovered sufficiently to understand that Audrey was speaking to me.</p>
			<p id="id02206">‘What is it? Don’t they answer?’</p>
			<p id="id02207">It is curious how the mind responds to the need for making an effort for the sake of somebody else. If I had had only myself to think of, it would, I believe, have been a considerable time before I could have adjusted my thoughts to grapple with this disaster. But the necessity of conveying the truth quietly to Audrey and of helping her to bear up under it steadied me at once. I found myself thinking quite coolly how best I might break to her what had happened.</p>
			<p id="id02208">‘I’m afraid,’ I said, ‘I have something to tell you which may⁠—’</p>
			<p id="id02209">She interrupted me quickly.</p>
			<p id="id02210">‘What is it? Can’t you make them answer?’</p>
			<p id="id02211">I shook my head. We looked at each other in silence.</p>
			<p id="id02212">Her mind leaped to the truth more quickly than mine had done.</p>
			<p id="id02213">‘They have cut the wire!’</p>
			<p id="id02214">I took up the receiver again and gave another call. There was no reply.</p>
			<p id="id02215">‘I’m afraid so,’ I said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
